---
title: vSAN 6.6
excerpt: "Releases of Tuesday, 18th of April"
header:
teaser: ""
category: [Blog]
tags: [vSAN]
---

  **vSAN 6.6**               
  * [Download](https://my.vmware.com/en/web/vmware/info/slug/datacenter_cloud_infrastructure/vmware_vsan/6_6)  
  * [Documentation](https://www.vmware.com/support/pubs/virtual-san-pubs.html)  
  * [Release Notes](http://pubs.vmware.com/Release_Notes/en/vsan/66/vmware-virtual-san-66-release-notes.html)  
  * [Product Homepage](https://www.vmware.com/products/virtual-san.html)  

**Release Details:**
  * Release Date: **18th of April**  
  * Release Type: **Minor**   
  * Build Numbers: **5310538**    

**What's New:**  

  ⦁ Unicast. In vSAN 6.6 and later releases, multicast is not required on the physical switches that support the vSAN cluster.  
  ⦁ Encryption. vSAN supports data-at-rest encryption of the vSAN datastore.  
  ⦁ Enhanced stretched cluster availability with local fault protection. You can provide local fault protection for virtual machine objects within a single site in a stretched cluster.  
  ⦁ Configuration Assist and Updates. You can use the Configuration Assist and Updates pages to check the configuration of your vSAN cluster, and resolve any issues.  
  ⦁ Resynchronization throttling. You can throttle the IOPS used for cluster resynchronization.  
  ⦁ Health service enhancements. New and enhanced health checks for encryption, cluster membership, time drift, controller firmware, disk groups, physical disks, disk balance.  
  ⦁ Host-based vSAN monitoring. You can monitor vSAN health and basic configuration through the ESXi host client.  
  ⦁ Performance service enhancements. vSAN performance service includes statistics for networking, resynchronization, and iSCSI.  
  ⦁ vSAN integration with vCenter Server Appliance. You can create a vSAN cluster as you deploy a vCenter Server Appliance, and host the appliance on that cluster.  
  ⦁ Maintenance mode enhancements. The Confirm Maintenance Mode dialog box provides information to guide your maintenance activities.  
  ⦁ Rebalancing and repair enhancements. Disk rebalancing operations are more efficient. Manual rebalancing operation provides better progress reporting.  
  ⦁ Disk failure handling. If a disk experiences sustained high latencies or congestion, vSAN considers the device as a dying disk, and evacuates data from the disk. vSAN handles the dying disk by evacuating or rebuilding data. No user action is required, unless the cluster lacks resources or has inaccessible objects. When vSAN completes evacuation of data, the health status is listed as DyingDiskEmpty. vSAN does not unmount the failed device.  
  ⦁ New esxcli commands.

*Tags: vSAN*
